URL: https://www.general-security.gov.lb/en/posts/11 
Title: Biometric Passport
Category:Biometric Passport
Keywords: documents, fees, minors, renewal, biometric
Content:
Requested documents:

The adequate application for passports format A4 (10 years) issued by the competent mayor according to the place of residence.
Lebanese ID card OR/AND an extract of civil status (whether the Lebanese citizen is applying for the 1st time for a biometric passport or not). Follow this link for more information: https://www.general-security.gov.lb/ar/posts/408
A new colored photo ID photo on a white background, 4.5 x 3.5, on which the name of the individual appears, as well as the number and place of registered residence, signed and certified by the mayor.
The old passport if the latter is available, as well as a copy of the pages that are not empty.
The fees related to this application.
When it comes to members of the general security, whether active or retired, and the applications sent by their families, they can hand out only one document of identification (identity card, or extract of individual civil status, which dates back to one year at the most). The term family in this context is used to refer to kids, wife / husband and parents.
Minors aged 3 years and less are granted a passport (5 years) based on the extract of civil status issued 3 months ago at the most, a copy of the latter, and the above-mentioned documents. The authorization of the parents or the legal guardian is requested.
 
Remarks:

The id photo has to conform to current regulations.
The regular substitution of the biometric passport can be requested by the interested party.
When it comes to minors aged 18 years or less, the authorization of both parents is requested, their signature is certified by the competent notary or by a general security officer.
If one of the parents or both die, or in case of a divorce, the legal guardian has to grant his authorization and sign. The latter is appointed via a judicial decision, or a proxy that conforms to current regulations.
If the interested party (above-mentioned) is not able to show up and grant his approval, he can eventually assign a representative via a proxy that conforms to current regulations, done via a competent notary.
If the legal guardian is abroad, he will have to sign a proxy that is certified by the Lebanese embassy, and the ministry of foreign affairs, or via a notary if there isn’t a Lebanese embassy in the country of residence. (The prefecture has to certify the proxy as well)
The validity date of the travel authorization is set to 3 months.
The validity date of the proxy is set to one month.
The proxy does not include minors born after its issuance.
Minors (that are married, widowed, or divorced) do not need any authorization.
The copies attached to the application have to be in an A4 format.
The interested party that wishes to substitute his passport, has to be photographed every time.
If any legal measures are taken against him, the legal decision must be attached to the application as well.
Fees:

Document requested	               Fees
Passport valid for 5 years	        6,000,000 L.L
Passport valid for 10 years	        10,000,000 L.L
Passport – first class - 5 years 	30,000,000 L.L
Passport – second class - 5 years 	20,000,000 L.L
Passport – first class - 10 years 	60,000,000 L.L
Passport – second class - 10 years 	40,000,000 L.L
 
NB: To receive the passport immediately, the interested party can apply at the department of public relations. An additional fee of LBP 9,800,000 will be however requested.
 
