URL:https://www.general-security.gov.lb/en/posts/72
Title:Exporting a biometric passport
Category: Exporting biometric passport
Keywords: Exporting, Lebanese passport, foreign passport, travel agencies, individual agencies, embassy, consulate, shipping
Content:
Exporting a Lebanese passport	
- The individual in question has to be present personally, or represented by a member of his family, to export his passport. A proxy has to be issued by a notary.
 
-     The invoice issued by the post company underlining the address of the sender and the receiver of the passport
 
-     A certified copy of the proxy as well as that of the receiver’s passport
 
NB: If the country in question has a diplomatic entity in Lebanon (an embassy – a consulate), then exporting the passport is not allowed except in some specific justified cases. 
 
Exporting a Foreign passport	
- The owner of the passport has to show up personally, or be represented by a member of his family. A guarantee delivered by the notary giving the representative the right to export the passport can be however used.
 
-     The invoice issued by the post company underlining the address of the sender and the receiver of the passport 
 
-     A certified copy of the proxy as well as that of the receiver’s passport.

NB: the representative shipping the foreign passport, that has no family ties with the owner of the hereby passport, has to be provide an invoice underlining the entry of the passport on Lebanese grounds

Lebanese or foreign passport shipped:

Potential beneficiaries

- Travel agency 
- courier companies 
- Travelers
When it comes to the passports sent by Liban poste, or poste express or via a traveler, the interested party must show up at the general security at the bureau of press. A representative could replace him if the latter is a member of his family or if he holds a proxy done by the notary if it is a foreigner.

For travel agencies that plan to ship passports, the following documents are required:
1-   A certified copy of the extract of civil status held by the owner of the agency
2-   An extract of commercial register
3-   A proxy signed by the owner or the representative at the mayor’s office in favor of the agency

For the individual planning on shipping his passport with another traveler:
1-   The owner needs to show up in person at the department of press – general security, with the traveler concerned, to convey the pre-mentioned request.
2-   The traveler has to have his airplane ticket in hand to underline the date of his departure, as well as proof of an entry visa and a stable residence in the country of destination
3-   The traveler is held responsible in case of losing the passport, on in case of any illegal use of the latter

Nb: Passports exported by the embassy or the consulate are exempted from any authorization given by the general security. 
